What do you think about that as a advice for an individual turn
the other cheek, do you think? Uh,
I tend to believe that that's a really good way to live.
I think it's very underrated and this is me talking.
I think a lot of times when someone suppose you're having an argument and,
but you have to, you have to pick your battles. Right.
I suppose you're having a heat argument.
If someone says something very cruel to you,
you have attempted to double down and hit back twice as hard. Right.
But if it's someone who had all cares about you,
what they're just in the moment and you just stop and you just say,
did you hear what you said to me? For some cases,
that person will take a step back and be like, just like we,
when I snapped at Michael, uh, at Stein years ago, I'd be like, wow, okay, this,
this is bad. This is bad. I'm sorry. And they kind of, you know,
it's kind of like they have to get to 10 before they re control a delete to use
your language. Thank.
You. Yeah. <laugh> for overflow. I appreciate that.
But, and for some they're gonna, they're gonna just twist the knife. Yeah.
But I think this is a very useful technique.
And also you can also sleep well at night cuz you could be like,
as much as this person tried to hurt me, I still didn't reciprocate.
And yeah, I, I took that punch and it sucks,
but at least I never said anything that I could feel guilty about.
Exactly.
Do you think that's ultimately a good way to implement anarchy in your personal
life? Uh.
Anarchy, I don't implementing anarchy in your personal life just means, uh,
respecting people's boundaries. It means uh, um, uh,
not forcing people to do things that otherwise wouldn't wanna do.
I think you then have to take, um,
case by case like there's so many human interactions that are required for life.
Sure. Of course. And there's tension and all those kinds of things.
It's not always, am I being naive.
For you to sit yeah.
Being you're being so naive? No. Should I put the.
Hat on? <laugh> the hats on the other.
Head? Nah, well I had to take off the head cause it's like photo with the ring.
I was starting to feel like powerful. I,
I wanted to give you orders and I want no, I, I, I just, I think there's, uh,
ways of dealing with the tensions that are natural to human interactions,
that can't be simply, um, you know, uh,
it's not as simple as saying you want to respect the freedom of others and
um, the, the boundaries of others, it's like,
you both have to agree on stuff and work something out.
And the mechanisms of that agreement,
the game theory of that agreement requires different hacks and strategies. Sure.
And the, the,
the question is for an anarchist collective that's
well-functioning what kind of hacks, uh,
what kind of, ways of behavior are more likely to be productive and not,
you know, that that's almost like the question.
Do you want to turn the other cheek or do you wanna stand your ground really
firmly when somebody's an to you,
you walk away or when somebody's an to you,
you turn the other cheek and give 'em a chance to rise to the best version of
themselves. Sure. And then find, uh, a common ground kind of thing. It's a,
it's an open question of how to form those collectives when there's people with,
with difficult childhoods and the all that kind.
Of stuff. Well,
it also comes down to what is your relationship with this person, right?
Is this outta character, if you and I got into a disagreement,
all of a sudden you started getting very personal, first of all,
I'd be very hurt. Yeah. But then I'd be like,
this is outta character for L I'm sure I could be like, whoa, whoa,
let's take a pause here. Like you're getting heated. Yeah.
I'm trying to work this out.
What's going on here and you get it kind of a meta conversation, but again,
you and I have a relationship with mutual respect. So as opposed to,
if it was a stranger, you know, who's yeah. Just wants a piece of you.
It's just like, I don't, you are coming at me. Not correct.
I don't have to reciprocate in kind. I'm not gonna shoot you,
but I'm not gonna pretend that you deserve respect when you're treating me with
such Tim. Um, I would, I do defer, especially with people.
I know cuz it's just,
this is smart long term game theory as well as the right thing to do.
I do try to give them the benefit of doubt at first, right? Yeah.
Because if you're gonna go agro, you can't go back,
but you could always go from like, let me hear them out and then,
then I could go agro. So there's a big asymmetry there.
Yeah. And, and that's, I mean,
I don't think anyone has the answer to this question is,
is that the right strategy to me game theoretically,
it seems the right strategy is to, uh, well.
Reciprocity is what game theory says is the right strategy.
They did the prisoners dilemma and they found ti for tat is the one that's the
most advantageous.
So that's for when that's perfectly rational actors. But when you have, I mean,
there's noise that the there's a,
I think benefit to just even if they keep being to you
still being nice to them. Well then there's the inverse.
Where girls are turned off. Some people are like,
if you're in a relationship and not just girls,
but girls like some people when you're kind to them,
they find you less attractive. Right? Yeah. Like that is kind of this weird.
What am I supposed to do? Like you are only into me if I'm mean to you.
I don't wanna be mean, but then I'm getting punished for doing the right thing.
That's another tricky one. And I mean,
this is nothing that necessarily do with anarchism so much as like, you know,
human beings are infinitely complex. We don't know if I know the back story.
Like for example, just yesterday, Jay who's here is one of my close his friends.
I had a dinner with a bunch of people. I couldn't bring a plus four.
So I didn't, he wasn't invited, he didn't know the circumstances.
He just thought we were having dinner, Adam. He was hurt. Once I spelled it out,
he completely understood it.
I felt horrible because for me to have any of my friends feel left out is just a
very, very cruel thing. Yeah. Um, and I was,
I felt bad and I'm glad to apologize again,
publicly that that's end up being the circumstances. But yeah, it's, it's, it's,
it's a lot of times we're also in Plato's cave when you're dealing with somebody
else, you have very,
very limited information about their background and circumstances.
And that's why I will always, if it's someone I even have a little bit of,
of relationship with, try to give them benefit of the doubt, because I've found,
especially this comes from being a co-author when you co-author books and you're
walking other people's shoes, you don't know what's a lot of the information.
So if it it's a lot of times it's just a misunderstanding.
But isn't that a fundamentally anarchist question of a, uh,
how we figure out this puzzle of human complexities in order to form voluntary
collectives. Like when you have to figure that out,
how to make Fe people feel good, how to make people. I agree. That's fair. And,
and that.
I, I think, I, I think not only anarchists have to think about this as my point,
of course. Well, but we have to think about it more than others do.
Right. I.